In basketball, announcers, and fans often remark that whichever team is at home has a “home-court advantage”. I want to take an in-depth look at data from the NBA teams to see if this saying is truly accurate.  If there is a strong correlation between home games won vs away games lost then I can conclude that the home team might be more likely to win if all else is constant. In addition, I can try to predict the amount of home games won and compare them to the actual amount of home games won.

The data set came prepared very well from Kaggle, which made the cleaning process easier. To start, I calculated the missing values, removed duplicate rows, rows and columns containing missing values, and rows where all values were missing, and printed each count, all of which came out to be 0, ensuring there was no missing information. I then decided to drop “TotalPCT” and add the home game ratio to the data. This will make it easier to run regressions and create visualizations based only on the relevant data.

The two machine learning methods used were random forest regression and linear regression. The features included: Year, Win, Loss, and Away wins, which were used to predict the target, Home wins. I concluded that random forest regression was the best fit for the project since the goal was to predict the number of away wins. I created a nested loop to run the hyperparameters max depth, n estimators, and min sample split values for the random forest regression to receive the best accuracy score, which came out to be 0.9315 and an MSE of 3.17. For linear regression, the MSE was 4.18, and r squared was 0.90. Both accuracy scores are in the 90% range, which is very high. These results suggest that these machine learning methods are highly accurate in predicting the number of home wins for different NBA teams. It would be interesting to see if this model could be used to predict win probabilities of big tournaments or future seasons.

I chose to run two different regressions and a correlation matrix for the statistical methods. These tests reflected which variables have a strong correlation and that there is a significant difference in the chances of winning at home vs. away. In both regression methods, Welch's and normal, the results point to the rejection of the null hypothesis, meaning that there is a significant difference in the average number of wins between home and away games. 

The inputs in the correlation matrix include: Year, Wins, Loss, Home Wins, Home Loss, Away Wins, Away Loss, Home PCT, and Away PCT, and finally a HomeGameRatio. I found that year had a low correlation with the other variables. However, most of the other variables showed strong correlations, positive or negative, in regards to wins and losses away or at home.

For the statistical methods, I chose to run two regressions, one normal and one with the Welch's t-test method. Based on the feedback received from the project proposal, I decided to add the Welch’s t-test to test whether the means of two populations are equal. This is reflected in the code as equal variance was set to false. The p-value for the normal regression with an alpha of 0.05 came out to be 1.51e-217. This leads to the rejection of the null hypothesis, concluding that there is a significant difference between the average number of wins at home vs. away. The same conclusion was found with Welch's regression but with a p-value of 2.82e-217.
